README.md, before:

# The Archiver
## Description
The Archiver is a project that formed from my free time playing with .net aspire. 

This project started as a simple webapi that I could send a POST request from my phone and trigger a download of content.

As I developed it for that specific use, I found I wanted to expand it out so I can use it for whatever I want

The app consists of:
- A WebAPI: This is by default just on localhost, I suggest using a reverse proxy like cloudflare to access remotely
- Data: The db context and models for the sql server instance that runs for the cache. URLs are stored in the cache, and processed. Failed downloads are added to a table you can review
- DownloadPluginAPI: This is the package pushed to NuGet in order to create plugins to add functionality
- DownloadWorker: The background task that checks for new things to download
- Host: The aspire host
- MigrationService: Since aspire creates new containers and is meant to scale and move, this ensures that the changes to the db are applied and created each time
- ServiceDefaults: Standard .net aspire defaults to enable better local dev

Feel free to clone and run on your own, or do whatever you like with it. I'll likely update this as I need, and have example plugins you can use in other repos

To use a plugin, define the plugin folder ENV in the compose file, and place the dll of the libary there. You must implement the IDownloadHandler class and use the DownloadHandler attribute for the reflection to find it

## Setup Dev
Clone the repo, and add the .net secret to the host for the password, place a default sql password with the key "sql-password", this will be the default password for the "sa" account setup on the sql server instance.

Since this uses a persistant docker volume, this db will persist between runs so you can log into it at the IP of the host on the exposed port

## Running on Docker

This project is meant to run on your local server, since the goal is to archive things for yourself. 
In order to export an aspire project in a way that you can run locally, you need to use [aspir8](https://prom3theu5.github.io/aspirational-manifests/getting-started.html).

Once installed, run the following command from the host directory

```commandline
aspirate generate --output-format compose --non-interactive --secret-password teamneat
```
Change the following in the docker compose, you will have to adjust for your enviornment

Add this to the background-download section under image, make sure to set the env below to match those shares
```yaml
    volumes:
      - "D:\\Share:/share"
      - "D:\\TheArchiver\\Plugins:/plugins"
...
    environment:
      MaxConcurrentThreads: "10"
      ShareLocation: "/share"
      PluginsLocation: "/plugins"
```

Change the API ports, remove the 2 ports and only have this
```yaml
    ports:
    - target: 5255
      published: 5255
```

Delete the restart for migrations
```yaml
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Example Complete
```yaml
services:
  aspire-dashboard:
    container_name: "aspire-dashboard"
    image: "mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspire-dashboard:8.0"
    environment:
      DOTNET_DASHBOARD_UNSECURED_ALLOW_ANONYMOUS: "true"
    ports:
    - target: 18888
      published: 18888
    restart: unless-stopped
  sql:
    container_name: "sql"
    image: "mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2022-latest"
    environment:
      ACCEPT_EULA: "Y"
      MSSQL_SA_PASSWORD: "I0ftheT!ger"
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT: "http://aspire-dashboard:18889"
      OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: "sql"
    volumes:
    - "download-cache-data:/var/opt/mssql"
    ports:
    - target: 1433
      published: 1433
    restart: unless-stopped
  migrations:
    container_name: "migrations"
    image: "10.1.20.3:5050/download-manager/migrations:latest"
    environment:
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EXCEPTION_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EVENT_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_RETRY: "in_memory"
      ConnectionStrings__download-cache: "Server=sql,1433;User ID=sa;Password=I0ftheT!ger;TrustServerCertificate=true;Database=download-cache"
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT: "http://aspire-dashboard:18889"
      OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: "migrations"
  api:
    container_name: "api"
    image: "10.1.20.3:5050/download-manager/api:latest"
    environment:
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EXCEPTION_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EVENT_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_RETRY: "in_memory"
      ASPNETCORE_FORWARDEDHEADERS_ENABLED: "true"
      Kestrel__Endpoints__http__Url: "http://*:5255"
      ConnectionStrings__download-cache: "Server=sql,1433;User ID=sa;Password=I0ftheT!ger;TrustServerCertificate=true;Database=download-cache"
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT: "http://aspire-dashboard:18889"
      OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: "api"
    ports:
    - target: 5255
      published: 5255
    restart: unless-stopped
  background-download:
    container_name: "background-download"
    image: "10.1.20.3:5050/download-manager/background-download:latest"
    volumes:
      - "D:\\Share:/share"
      - "D:\\TheArchiver\\Plugins:/plugins"
    environment:
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EXCEPTION_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EVENT_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_RETRY: "in_memory"
      MaxConcurrentThreads: "10"
      ShareLocation: "/share"
      PluginsLocation: "/plugins"
      ConnectionStrings__download-cache: "Server=sql,1433;User ID=sa;Password=I0ftheT!ger;TrustServerCertificate=true;Database=download-cache"
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT: "http://aspire-dashboard:18889"
      OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: "background-download"
    restart: unless-stopped
volumes:
  download-cache-data: {}

```

Commit message:

Clarify Aspir8 container image handling in README.
Added an explanation about how Aspir8 manages container images, including default behavior and options for using a local registry. This provides clearer guidance for users setting up their environment.

README.md, after:

# The Archiver
## Description
The Archiver is a project that formed from my free time playing with .net aspire. 

This project started as a simple webapi that I could send a POST request from my phone and trigger a download of content.

As I developed it for that specific use, I found I wanted to expand it out so I can use it for whatever I want

The app consists of:
- A WebAPI: This is by default just on localhost, I suggest using a reverse proxy like cloudflare to access remotely
- Data: The db context and models for the sql server instance that runs for the cache. URLs are stored in the cache, and processed. Failed downloads are added to a table you can review
- DownloadPluginAPI: This is the package pushed to NuGet in order to create plugins to add functionality
- DownloadWorker: The background task that checks for new things to download
- Host: The aspire host
- MigrationService: Since aspire creates new containers and is meant to scale and move, this ensures that the changes to the db are applied and created each time
- ServiceDefaults: Standard .net aspire defaults to enable better local dev

Feel free to clone and run on your own, or do whatever you like with it. I'll likely update this as I need, and have example plugins you can use in other repos

To use a plugin, define the plugin folder ENV in the compose file, and place the dll of the libary there. You must implement the IDownloadHandler class and use the DownloadHandler attribute for the reflection to find it

## Setup Dev
Clone the repo, and add the .net secret to the host for the password, place a default sql password with the key "sql-password", this will be the default password for the "sa" account setup on the sql server instance.

Since this uses a persistant docker volume, this db will persist between runs so you can log into it at the IP of the host on the exposed port

## Running on Docker

This project is meant to run on your local server, since the goal is to archive things for yourself. 
In order to export an aspire project in a way that you can run locally, you need to use [aspir8](https://prom3theu5.github.io/aspirational-manifests/getting-started.html).

The images are not uploaded to a popular repo like DockerHub, by default Aspir8 will push to your machines image store, which for most is fine, but you can also push to a local registry, as I have in the example compose below. If you do not define a ContainerRegistry in the inti stage of aspirate, simply remove the reference to the registry, and it will pull from the local images

Once installed, run the following command from the host directory

```commandline
aspirate generate --output-format compose --non-interactive --secret-password teamneat
```
Change the following in the docker compose, you will have to adjust for your enviornment

Add this to the background-download section under image, make sure to set the env below to match those shares
```yaml
    volumes:
      - "D:\\Share:/share"
      - "D:\\TheArchiver\\Plugins:/plugins"
...
    environment:
      MaxConcurrentThreads: "10"
      ShareLocation: "/share"
      PluginsLocation: "/plugins"
```

Change the API ports, remove the 2 ports and only have this
```yaml
    ports:
    - target: 5255
      published: 5255
```

Delete the restart for migrations
```yaml
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Example Complete
```yaml
services:
  aspire-dashboard:
    container_name: "aspire-dashboard"
    image: "mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspire-dashboard:8.0"
    environment:
      DOTNET_DASHBOARD_UNSECURED_ALLOW_ANONYMOUS: "true"
    ports:
    - target: 18888
      published: 18888
    restart: unless-stopped
  sql:
    container_name: "sql"
    image: "mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2022-latest"
    environment:
      ACCEPT_EULA: "Y"
      MSSQL_SA_PASSWORD: "I0ftheT!ger"
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT: "http://aspire-dashboard:18889"
      OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: "sql"
    volumes:
    - "download-cache-data:/var/opt/mssql"
    ports:
    - target: 1433
      published: 1433
    restart: unless-stopped
  migrations:
    container_name: "migrations"
    image: "10.1.20.3:5050/download-manager/migrations:latest"
    environment:
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EXCEPTION_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EVENT_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_RETRY: "in_memory"
      ConnectionStrings__download-cache: "Server=sql,1433;User ID=sa;Password=I0ftheT!ger;TrustServerCertificate=true;Database=download-cache"
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT: "http://aspire-dashboard:18889"
      OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: "migrations"
  api:
    container_name: "api"
    image: "10.1.20.3:5050/download-manager/api:latest"
    environment:
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EXCEPTION_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EVENT_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_RETRY: "in_memory"
      ASPNETCORE_FORWARDEDHEADERS_ENABLED: "true"
      Kestrel__Endpoints__http__Url: "http://*:5255"
      ConnectionStrings__download-cache: "Server=sql,1433;User ID=sa;Password=I0ftheT!ger;TrustServerCertificate=true;Database=download-cache"
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT: "http://aspire-dashboard:18889"
      OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: "api"
    ports:
    - target: 5255
      published: 5255
    restart: unless-stopped
  background-download:
    container_name: "background-download"
    image: "10.1.20.3:5050/download-manager/background-download:latest"
    volumes:
      - "D:\\Share:/share"
      - "D:\\TheArchiver\\Plugins:/plugins"
    environment:
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EXCEPTION_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_EMIT_EVENT_LOG_ATTRIBUTES: "true"
      OTEL_DOTNET_EXPERIMENTAL_OTLP_RETRY: "in_memory"
      MaxConcurrentThreads: "10"
      ShareLocation: "/share"
      PluginsLocation: "/plugins"
      ConnectionStrings__download-cache: "Server=sql,1433;User ID=sa;Password=I0ftheT!ger;TrustServerCertificate=true;Database=download-cache"
      OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT: "http://aspire-dashboard:18889"
      OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: "background-download"
    restart: unless-stopped
volumes:
  download-cache-data: {}

```
